[Readme]

Sci-Fi Neon RPG: Spatial Simulation Engine
An OOP-based 2D action simulation developed with Python and Pygame. This project serves as a visual framework for verifying spatial navigation algorithms, entity interaction logic, and autonomous agent behaviors in a simulated sci-fi environment.

🌌 Project Overview
This application addresses the real-life challenge of visualizing abstract mathematical data. By mapping CSV-based layouts into a 2D coordinate system, the engine allows for the real-time testing of:

Vector-based pursuit algorithms (Autonomous Agent Tracking).

AABB Collision Resolution (Spatial Constraints).

Y-Sorting Depth Perception (Pseudo-3D Rendering).

🛠️ Features
Dynamic Camera System: A centering camera that manages world offsets and render layers.

Combat State Machine: Directional melee attacks with integrated cooldowns and hit detection.

Autonomous AI: Enemies that calculate distance vectors to track and engage the player.

Modular Map Loading: Support for external .csv files to define environment geometry.

🏗️ OOP Implementation
This project utilizes all four pillars of Object-Oriented Programming:

Inheritance: Entities like Player and Enemy inherit from pygame.sprite.Sprite.

Encapsulation: Internal states (health, speed, hitboxes) are managed within class methods.

Polymorphism: Unified .update() calls trigger unique behaviors across different sprite types.

Abstraction: The Level class hides complex collision and rendering logic from the main entry point.

🚀 Getting Started
Prerequisites
Python 3.8 or higher

Pygame library

Installation
Clone the repository:

Bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git
cd your-repo-name
Install dependencies:

Bash
pip install pygame
Run the application:

Bash
python main.py

Key,Action
"W, A, S, D","Move the Player (Up, Left, Down, Right)"
Spacebar,Perform Neon Energy Slash
Esc,Quit Game

📁 File Structure
main.py: The entry point of the application.

level.py: Handles the game world logic, camera, and sprite coordination.

player.py: Player movement, input, and combat logic.

enemy.py: Autonomous AI tracking and health management.

support.py: Utility functions for importing CSV layouts.

tile.py: Static environment objects.

attackeffect.py: Visual and logical handling of combat effects.

PNGs/: Directory containing all 16-bit pixel art assets.

📜 Academic Declaration
This project is submitted as part of the COMP2090SEF / S209W course at HKMU.

AI Disclosure: Generative AI was used to assist in the creation of 16-bit neon-themed pixel art assets and to optimize specific code structures within the AttackEffect class.

References: Architecture patterns inspired by Pygame Community Documentation and HKMU course lecture notes on Data Structures and OOP.